Extraordinary


Version: 3 (May 18, 2024)


Logline:
During a rare cosmic phenomena, a group of friends discover supernatural powers. However, relationships get tense as they unravel harsh truths starting with a powerless friend.


Timeline: Modern day
Genre: Sci-fi Thriller
Themes: Supernatural, Relationships
Alternative titles: Influence


Characters:
Alex - Protagonist - 20s to 30s - man.
Devon - Antagonist  - 20s to 30s - athletic, muscular man.
Riley - 20s to 30s - athletic woman.
Casey - 20s to 30s - man.




































2024, All the Line Studio & Incubator
(917) 573-8552
AlltheLineStudio@gmail.com
Ext. Road - Evening:
Alex drives home with an order of take-out food as he listens to the radio.
He switches the nob between stations, until he hears:


Radio Host: “...where the good vibes roll! But first, let’s dive into today’s story: solar flares, which scientists say will bombard us with high gamma rays this evening. That could mean power outages or even block radio transmissions. But Mayor Wilson says this is completely overblown. Hey Sun, don’t flare up and throw shade at…”


Radio: [Crackle, Crackle, fade to static noise]
Alex disregards this and tries switching stations with no success, as he’s nearly home.


Ext Driveway - Evening:
He parks his car, grabs the food, and walks toward the house.
The camera follows him from behind as a street light flickers off in the distance.


Int House - Evening:
Alex enters the house, greets his friends, and casually waves to Casey on the computer.


Casey’s reading the ebook Stranger Than Fiction, but glances Alex from the corner of his eye and waves back. Casey turns back and continues.


Devon’s playing a sports game on a big screen TV and exclaims: “Let's go!”, making a fist pump.
Devon continues: “Alex is back! Whada ya got, Whada ya got?”
Alex enters the room with the bags of subs.
Alex: “What you asked for, surprisingly. Your double steak and bacon sub” and hands him the sub.
Devon: “Awesome, you’re the best.”
Alex quietly says: “Would it be cool if you paid me tonight? I’m a little strapped for cash this week.”
Devon, distracted by the game, says: “Uhh, dude. I totally forgot. I’ll get it to you soon.” and continues his game.


Casey walks over to Alex, gets his food and says: “I’m keeping tabs, don’t worry. Here, I’ll spot you the money.” Casey pulls out his phone, goes to his cash app, but the app keeps spinning.”




Casey: “What? Let me check on the computer” and gets a 404 error on his browser.
Casey: “Hrmm. I think the wifi just went down” and starts refreshing the page.


Moments later, Devon loses connection to his online game.
Devon exclaims: “That was an interception! It went right through him. Buggy game!” and gets booted back to the main menu.


Riley dashes into the living room, saying: “What’s going on?”, accidentally knocking over a heavy bookshelf.
Devon rushes over and miraculously grabs the shelf before it hits the floor and easily lifts it back up. A few books fall on the floor.


Alex, Devon, and Riley look at each other in disillusion.
Interrupted by the commotion, Casey walks over with interest.


Casey casually says: “Ok, what’s going on?”
Alex: “Try that again.”
Once more, Devon lifts the heavy bookshelf down and back up with ease.


Riley in a different tone: “Ok, what’s going on? Since when did you have this strength?”
Devon, surprised and testing out his arms: “No Idea.”


A lamp in the room turns off on its own.
Alex: “That’s funny.”
Alex walks over to the lightswitch, and flips it off and on, and the light turns back on.


Riley tries turning on her phone with no success.
Riley says: “Could you take a look at this?” and hands her phone to Alex, which immediately turns on.
Riley exclaims: “Wow. I know you’re smart, but not that smart.”
As she takes the phone back, the power dies again.
Chills crawl down Alex’s spine.


Devon: “Is this some kind of joke?”
Alex: “Would I ever be into a joke like this?”


Casey: “It would appear that the solar flare’s rays are disrupting our electronics and GPS signals.”
Riley, unsettled, says: “Yeah I heard about that, but this is bizarre.”
Devon proudly exclaims: “Don’t you get it? It’s given us superpowers. I have strength and Alex got some sort of…”
Riley: “Battery power?”
Unenthusiastically, Alex says: “...awesome…”


Devon moves toward Alex and says: “Hey! This is a gift. You’ve always had money issues. We can erase all of that and be rich! Think of all the things we could do.”
Alex starts considering this.


Riley: “Why don’t I have powers then? This isn’t fair.”
Riley starts doing jumping jacks and other physical movements.


Alex: “Casey, do you notice anything?”
Casey makes some gestures, does a handful of stances, but nothing happens.


Alex: “We still don’t know what all of this means.”


Devon: “Yeah Casey, what’s your superpower, fingernail growth?”
Casey: “Maybe it’s foresight into your bumbling future?”
Alex: “His powers could be more subtle.”
Casey makes more gestures and movements with no success.


Alex pauses for a moment and says: “Why are you downplaying Casey? You guys have been good friends for how long?”
Devon: “Long enough that he shouldn't be so sensitive. It’s just a joke.”


Devon bugs Casey even further.
Riley interjects: “Hey, guys! I think mine is …” but gets interrupted.


Casey’s had enough and says: “Go take a walk, Devon” and points toward the front door.
Devon slyly remarks: “Now that… is a useful gesture. Maybe I’ll practice my newfound strength…  on your car.”
Devon dashes out the front door and yells: “How’s it look sideways?”




Ext Driveway - Evening:
Casey and Alex rush outside to find Devon already kneeling on the ground with both hands on the bottom of the car.


Devon aligns his body and tenses his grip, and one motion lifts the car.
Then he slowly lowers it.
Devon: “I’m a generous god and decided not to tip your car over.”
Casey, shocked: “Why would anyone give you power?”
Devon smirks: “The gods deemed you unworthy, you wouldn’t understand.”
Casey retorts: “You know it’s called Pandora’s box for a reason, right?”


Riley runs outside and steps between them, yelling: “Enough!”
Devon exclaims: “Fine. I’m getting my stuff.” and walks back inside.
Everyone slowly follows him back inside.


Int House - Evening:
Devon gathers his wallet, other things, and says: “Cmon, Riley. Let’s get out of here. We don’t have to deal with this.”
With his head, Devon motions for the door. Riley remains motionless.
Devon rigidly says: “This…” with more head motion, “... is a gesture.”
Devon moves closer to Riley and spitefully says: “You too, huh?”


Devon grabs Riley by the neck and slams her against the wall.
Riley puts both hands on his arm, attempting to break free.


Alex rushes toward Devon, but Devon effortlessly knocks him down with his free arm.
Casey, realizing the futility of the situation, says: “Is your power strength or anger?”


Riley’s choking against the wall, barely able to breathe.
Devon tightens his grip and says: “You don’t even have a power. I was going to share mine with you, but you have to be all high and mighty.”


Riley tries to say something: “...”
Devon loosens his grip and says: “What’s that?”
Riley gasps: “...endurance…”
Devon scuffling says: “What good is endurance? Should’ve been speed!”


Riley strengthens her grip and says: “...eventually…”
Riley bursts free from Devon’s grip: “Endurance beats strength!”


Devon attempts to grab Riley again, but Riley’s hands match his.
Riley overwhelms Devon’s grip strength. Devon winces.
Riley punches Devon in the gut and sweeps his legs, knocking him to the ground.
[THUD!]




Camera pans to an astonished Casey, and Alex.
Alex is holding a powered cell phone, with an audible dial tone.
Alex grins and puts the phone down on the table, which powers off and loses signal again. Alex makes an even wider grin.


Riley questions: “I did that?” and then proudly exclaims: “Yeah. I did that!”


[10 second montage of Devon’s gym workouts, while Casey voice-overs:]
Casey: “Devon, you don’t actually have supernatural strength. You workout 5x a week at the gym, particularly deadlifts. You just have strong muscles. The solar flare’s impairing your senses.”


Devon feels an odd tingling from his nose, moves his hand to it, and notices blood on his hand. Devon suddenly has a nosebleed.


Devon yells: “I don’t believe you!”
Casey smirks and replies: “That would reinforce it.”
Devon gets up and leaves, slamming the front door.


After a few moments, Alex and Casey exchange looks and breathe a sigh of relief.
Casey sits down.


Riley calmly says: “What a jerk. Serves him right for losing his powers.”
Alex replies: “Yeah”.
Alex picks up the defunct phone again, powering up as he holds it, saying: “...wait …”
Casey looks towards Riley and says: “...He never had powers to begin with.”


Riley questionably says: “Oh” and confidently says: “Right, silly me.”
Riley shrewdly says: “You know this is a lot for me to take in. I think I’ll go for a run to clear my mind.”


Riley leisurely walks towards the front door.
Casey questions: “Are you trying to avoid…”
Riley hurries her pace and interjects: “Cloudy mind!!!”
Casey: “...my explanation”.
Riley gets a hand on the doorknob and continues: “Needs some clearing!”
Casey and Riley simultaneously say: “Sorry!”


[10 second montage of Riley’s cardio workouts, while Casey voice-overs:]
Casey: “Riley, you don’t actually have supernatural endurance. You workout 5x a week at the gym, particularly planks. You just have great cardio.”


Riley suddenly has a nosebleed.
Riley yells out: “Noo!!! Running is my dream!”


Casey exclaims: “You can’t outrun the truth.”
Riley replies: “Well…” and pauses for a moment.
Riley says: “...then maybe I’ll chase the lie.”
Riley leaves, slamming the front door behind her.


Once again, Alex and Casey exchange looks and breathe a sigh of relief.
Casey sits down.


[Camera zooms in on the blood on the floor, beside the front door.]
[Camera slowly zooms out, where we see a dark empty living room.]
[Backing up more, we see Alex and Casey on the sides, with light’s flickering near them.]


A few moments pass.
Then, we hear: “clap… clap… clap” [slow claps]
Devon’s voice: “Bravo Casey, my boy.”
Devon emerges from the shadows, saying: “Case closed by Casey. Must be nice sitting on that throne knowing everything? I guess intelligence is your power.”


Casey stands up as light contrasts between his side of the room and Devon’s.


Casey: “Or maybe I’ve always been intelligent. What are you doing here?”
Devon confidently smirks and raises his hands.
Devon: “If you can’t beat them, avoid them.”


Devon continues: “And seeing as how Riley’s gone. I have …” [Devon looks around the room] “...what would appear to be, unstoppable power.”


Casey: “Did you not hear me earlier?”
Devon nods, but says: “I heard a lot of things. Besides, I don’t need the supernatural to put you in a headlock.”
Alex moves between Devon and Casey.
All lights in the room start flickering off and on.


Devon knocks Alex away and moves toward Casey.
Devon: “I’m content with who I am.”


Casey’s corner at the back of the room.


Casey says: “That’s amazing. Then you don’t need anything from me.”
Devon yells: “Stop making sense!!!” and wrestles Casey to the floor, as lights go out and furniture falls over.


Devon overpowers Casey and gets on top of him.
Devon: “You got what you deserved!”


“Zzzttt!”


Devon pulses from an electric shock and falls to the side.
Casey lays motionless on the floor.
Alex emerges with electrical wires connecting to an outlet, wires still crackling around the gloves he’s wearing.


[10 second montage of Alex’s studying, while Casey voice-overs:]
Casey: “Alex, you … actually are extraordinary. You study 5x a week at the library… particularly electrical engineering. You just have enough money to get by. You’re a true friend.”


Devon, alive and startled by the electrocution, backs away, gets up, and leaves the house without a single word.


Alex reverts his jerry-rigged wire back and safely disconnects from the outlet, causing lights to come back on in the room.


Alex: “I… safely… drew extra voltage from the house. Science is simply magic with rules.”


Casey: “Everyone’s power traced back to what they enjoy doing most. How do you explain that?”
Alex shrugs and says: “Rules we don’t know yet?”


The cell phone resting on the table lights up on his own.
Alex: “Hey, the interference is finally fading!”
Power restores to all lights and electrical devices in the house, as the solar flare ends.


Int House - Evening - Final Act:
Casey and Alex give each other a strong hug.
Casey: “Thanks man, I owe you”.
Alex: “You don’t owe me anything.”


Alex walks towards one of the books dropped on the floor from the bookshelf.


Casey: “I think I need a drink” and starts walking to leave the room.


Alex gets a glimmer of hope, concentrates, and picks up one of the fallen books.
As he grabs it, the book glows brightly with a red-orange aura.


Alex: “Casey! I still have my powers!”


Casey, not looking, continues walking.
Casey: “I’m not that gullible. But you light up everyone’s day. And that’s enough in my book.”
Casey casually leaves the room.


Alex, shocked at the words and his powers, drops the book on the coffee table.
Then paces back and forth, with unease.


[Camera shifts away from Alex, drifts above the book, and then downward towards the book resting on the table.]


It continues glowing a red-orange hue, with the book’s title reading “Stranger Than Fiction”. The same book that Casey was reading and Devon dropped.
[Fade to black]










Post Credit Scene:
Ext Driveway - Early morning:
Casey appears drunk and tries, but fails to start the engine to his car.
Alex, sober, arrives by the driver side door:


[10 second montage of Casey’s drinking, while Alex voice-overs:]
Alex: “Casey, you don’t actually have supernatural driving skills. You drank 5 glasses in the last hour, particularly vodka. You just have a strong liver. This has nothing to do with the solar flare.”


We see Casey drinking too much and imagining he’s a professional race car driver. Montage continues back in the driveway with Alex taking the keys and helping walk Casey back inside the house.
































































Recap:
It was a supernatural test from the cosmos that showed the friends whether the relationships were genuine.


Also, we are all powerful in the skills we work on.


The solar flare messed with everyone’s senses because it catered to their passion.
Casey's passion is knowledge and learning, so he didn’t appear affected by it. It’s also questionable if he removed anyone’s power.


Powers:
Devon’s power - strength
Riley - endurance
Casey - intelligence and power removal
Alex - creating power and energy with objects.


Characters:
Alex - Protagonist - 20s to 30s - man. Timid, hardworking, self-sacrificing personality, dislikes confrontation.
Devon - Antagonist  - 20s to 30s - athletic, muscular man. Confident and charismatic personality, bit of a jock.
Riley - 20s to 30s - athletic woman. Stubborn personality.
Casey - 20s to 30s - man. Knowledge seeker.


Baseline: The 3 friends have powers and Casey has none. Witness true relationships. Slowly descend into realizing Casey is questionably powerful. Leverage moves from the 3 friends to Casey.


1st Twist: Casey’s intelligence and questionable power removal.


2nd Twist: Comedy that they were gullible and had regular skills that they worked on, that they thought were superpowers.


3rd Twist: Alex retains power and shows a profound one due to his good deeds and not being discredited by Casey. Did Casey have verbal power removal?


Questions:
1) Would Devon and Riley still have powers if Casey allowed them?






2) Should the tension between the 3 friends to Casey grow differently?


3) Riley needs to be written better. She knocks over the bookshelf, gets interrupted, and loses her powers without any real justification.


4) Need more downtime between Riley finding and losing her powers.
